# SoftwareDevTools-Project_4 
This project will be using web applications and practice on common software engineering tasks.

The main goal of the project is to build and deploy a simple web application dashboard to a cloud service, here I am using the Render platform. Using Github, a repository I created called SoftwareDevTools contains the necessary files needed for the project. Using Git Bash, I cloned the repository to my local machine and worked on the files in VS Code. In addition to python, other additional libraries needed are pandas, numpy, streamlit, plotly, and altair. The dataset I am working with contains information about cars in a car dealership inventory such as price, model, and odometer readings (https://practicum-content.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/datasets/vehicles_us.csv). In the repository, I created a Jupyter notebook called EDA.ipynb and a python file called app.py. The EDA notebook contains a simple exploratory data analysis with some histograms and scatterplots using streamlit. The app.py files contains three elements drawing from the EDA.ipynb: showing the data in a table, a histogram of car prices, and a scatterplot of car prices vs model year. This app.py file will be used with Render to create an interactable web application.

To launch this code on your local machine, fork this repository and clone this repository to your local machine. Then create a new Python environment and install the packages/libraries mentioned above in the same pathway as the location of the repository. I recommend installing VS Code as it is versatile and easy to work with Git repositories. The pd.read_csv() line in the EDA.ipynb and app.py needs to be edited with the path the is unique to your local machine to find the csv file. Then run the app.py file from VS Code or in a command terminal.

The URL for the render application is: https://softwaredevtools.onrender.com/
